.\"       $Id: dirvish-locate.8,v 12.0 2004/02/25 02:42:14 jw Exp $  $Name: Dirvish-1_2 $
.ds d \-\^\-
.ds o \fR[\fP
.ds c \fR]\fP
.ds | \fR|\fP
.ds bank \fIbank\fP
.ds vault \fIvault\fP
.ds branch \fIbranch\fP
.ds image \fIimage\fP
.de D
\\.B \*d\\$1
..
.de DR
\\.BR \*d\\$1 \\$2
..
.de Bi
\\.BI \\$1 " \\$2"
..
.de DI
\\.BI \*d\\$1 \\$2
..
.de Di
\\.BI \*d\\$1 " \\$2"
..
.de See
See \fB\\$1\fP for details.
..
.de SeeIn
See \fB\\$1\fP in \fB\\$2\fP for details.
..
.de multiple
Multiple \fB\\$1:\fP values will accumulate.
..
.de default
Default value: \fB\\$1\fP
..
.TH DIRVISH-LOCATE 8
.SH NAME
dirvish\-locate \- locate file versions in dirvish images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dirvish\-locate
.I vault\*o:branch\*c
.I pattern
.SH DESCRIPTION
Locate versions of files in a dirvish vault

The index of each image specified \*[vault] is searched for paths matching
.IR pattern .
Each path found matching the
.I pattern
will be reported followed by a modification time of each version of the
file and all images having a link to it.

The optional \*[branch] specification will restrict
searching to the specified branch.

Images with an error status will be skipped as will any
without index files.  The index file may be compressed by
gzip or bzip2.
See
.B tree
and
.B index
in
.B dirvish.conf(5)
for details.

The
.I pattern
is a
.B perl
regular expression to match the final component of the path.
Append
.B .*
to the end of the pattern if you wish to match any substring
of the whole path
or 
.B $
if you wish to anchor the pattern to the end of the path.
.See perlre(1)

Directories are excluded from matching as they would wind up
matching every file within them anyway.
Symlinks are also excluded from matching.

If the
.I pattern
matches too many paths
.B dirvish\-locate
will only report the paths matched and not versions.
As a sanity check if the number of matches is really excessive
.B dirvish\-locate
will limit the number of images searched.
Excessive matches is an indication of an insufficiently
specific
.IR pattern .
Use the resulting path list to compose a more specific one.
.SH EXIT CODES
To facilitate further automation and integration of
.B dirvish-locate
with other tools
.B dirvish-locate provides rationalised exit codes.
The exit codes are range based.  While the code for
a specific error may change from one version to another it
will remain within the specified range.  So don't test for
specific exit codes but instead test for a range of values.
To the degree possible higher value ranges indicate more
severe errors.
.TP
0
success
200-219
An error was encountered in loading a configuration file.
.TP
220-254
An error was detected in the configuration.
.TP
255
Incorrect usage.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/dirvish/master.conf
alternate master configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/dirvish.conf
master configuration file.
.TP
.IB bank/vault/image/ summary
image creation summary.
.TP
.IB bank/vault/image/ index
.TP
.IB bank/vault/image/ index.gz
.TP
.IB bank/vault/image/ index.bz2
dirvish index file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
dirvish.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
