.\"       $Id: dirvish-runall.8,v 12.0 2004/02/25 02:42:14 jw Exp $  $Name: Dirvish-1_2 $
.ds d \-\^\-
.ds o \fR[\fP
.ds c \fR]\fP
.ds | \fR|\fP
.ds bank \fIbank\fP
.ds vault \fIvault\fP
.ds branch \fIbranch\fP
.ds image \fIimage\fP
.de D
\\.B \*d\\$1
..
.de DR
\\.BR \*d\\$1 \\$2
..
.de Bi
\\.BI \\$1 " \\$2"
..
.de DI
\\.BI \*d\\$1 \\$2
..
.de Di
\\.BI \*d\\$1 " \\$2"
..
.de See
See \fB\\$1\fP for more details.
..
.de SeeIn
See \fB\\$1\fP in \fB\\$2\fP for more details.
..
.de multiple
Multiple \fB\\$1:\fP values will accumulate.
..
.de default
Default value: \fB\\$1\fP
..
.TH DIRVISH-RUNALL 8
.SH NAME
dirvish\-runall \- run a set of dirvish backup jobs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI dirvish\-runall [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Run all the jobs specified in the
.B Runall
field of the dirvish master configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
Each option may be unambiguously abbreviated.
.TP
.Di config configfile
Read
.I configfile
for the
.B Runall:
field.
By default
.B dirvish\-runall
will use the
.B Runall:
field from the master configuration file.

This will only be used by
.B dirvish-runall
itself
and not be propagated to the
.B dirvish
processes.

.See dirvish.conf(5)
.TP
.D no\-run
.TP
.D dry\-run
Don't actually do anything.
Just display what would have happened.
.TP
.D quiet
Run quietly, only report errors.

Normally
.B dirvish\-runall
will report the dirvish commands invoked with timestamps.
.TP
.D version
Print the version information and exit.
.SH EXIT CODES
To facilitate further automation and integration of
.B dirvish-runall
with other tools
.B dirvish-runall
provides rationalised exit codes.
The exit codes are range based.  While the code for
a specific error may change from one version to another it
will remain within the specified range.  So don't test for
specific exit codes but instead test for a range of values.
To the degree possible higher value ranges indicate more
severe errors.
.TP
0
success
.TP
1-199
Number of
.B dirvish
jobs that failed.  If more than 199 jobs
failed 199 will be the exit code.
.TP
200-219
An error was encountered in loading a configuration file.
.TP
220-254
An error was detected in the configuration.
.TP
255
Incorrect usage.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/dirvish/master.conf
alternate master configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/dirvish.conf
master configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
dirvish.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
